
https://www.xvideos.com/tags/hogtied
https://www.pornhub.com/video/search?search=hogtied
Whoever has the passion for latex comes on long or short not over the topic of bondage and it’s different types. The beauty and of course also the sexual attraction of latex is all aware and for many known but over time everyone wants it a little more intense and the passion gets further if you explore the special taste of bondage.

1 Bondage Definition

Bondage and LatexBondage is an English term of something like slavery or servitude says. Within the BDSM-scene the term bondage got a more clear definition and explains everything around restriction of movement and thus the absolute dedication to another person which is also known around the scene if we talk about shackles. It is especially for the shackled person the feeling of dedication to one or more partners and be on the mercy to get receive emotions from wax, strokes or slaps. The aim is to increase the excitability of the willing submission and to get over the desire of pain to a special way of ecstasies.

2 Bondage and BDSM

Bondage is a part of the BDSM-concept composed as follows: "Bondage & discipline, Dominance & submission, sadism & masochism". In the BDSM scene is the dominance and submission an important part of the setting and the interplay of partners. The variety and the possibilities to what the sadism or masochism can go vary. As submissive girl bondage is an essential part and especially being shackled also outside of this subculture a well-known and popular practice.

The reasons to be shackled or to chain someone are very different. It is the willingness to submission on the one hand a vote of confidence, on the other hand, and for me the restriction of freedom of movement is a result being tethered to other purposes and thus there is an intense of sexual feelings and perception.

3 Bondage Forms and Types

The BDSM-scene has three important forms and practices:

3.1 Purpose Bondage

The Purpose Bondage is the general way to shackle or making a person incapable of movement with the aim of ensuring that they are not able to escape from the following procedure. This may begin in a sensual fixation of the arms above the head where a partner is stroking or kissing the opposite fully without interruption. However, the purpose bondage can also be interesting if it is specific with clear fixation of the partner also with aim that the submissive or receiving person has to take also violent shock and pain.

Since this form of bondage can be also very painful the BDSM-scene as a so-called Safe Word. If the top reaches a limit the safe word is pronounced and the session should be changed or terminated.

3.2 Decorative Bondage

For the decorative bondage the visual effect decisive and crucial. This is the type of the bondage chaining and shackle a person primary for a visual presentation to show the person, a special part of the body or maybe or clothing. The decorative bondage is therefore often used in live shows or photo shoots. But even if the optical effect is in the foreground that does not mean that the tethered person has a better ability to move. The movement is still restricted and the bottom is also available to receive sexual influences.

3.3 Torture Bondage

The submissive person, or also bottom, is in an unpleasant or painful position in the torture bondage primary to rein or receive penalty. The bottom has to get fixed for minutes up to hours in an attitude of spending and has to wait for the grace of the top who is the dominant part.

The limits of this blur to purpose bondage, because the (painful) fixation with a sexual stimulation can finally lead to a special degree of the pleasure.

4 Bondage Toys and Furniture

Depending on fixing the partner there are different ways to make this restriction. Independ from the BDSM scene the use of the handcuffs (with plush) is a popular and easy to use tool for fixing a partner and restrict freedom of action.

The connection to the Andreas Cross or other objects is a coveted technique to fix a partner in a certain position and prepare for a special treatment. It aims again to fixate the other one but also the spread of the bottoms legs and arms and make it available for nice games.

If there is a hook in furniture or the ceiling the bottom cannot just been fixed but has also sometimes a small possibility to move about. The tightly bound to a hook is well in connection with the torture bondage to train the bottom to stand just on the tips of the toes and break the will in this way. It is good for a training as well to walk in ballet boots and not be able to leave for the pain. Falling down is usually avoided but can be motivate the bottom not to break if she stands in ballet boots.

The winding form is finally a form in which a partner is fixed in a body bag from slide, lace or latex well tightly packed and thus any movement. The feeling is comparable with a latex vacuum bed in which the top has full control over bottom.

5 Bondage - Bound with Ropes

My favorite type of bondage is the popular and generally known form of the bondage with ropes. The origin it is assumed in Asian region where originally probably the torture bondage was the real start point.

5.1 European and American Forms

The mostly known forms of bondage here focus to fix the bottom inability to move. The aesthetic aspect was firstly ignored but today it gets more in the focus but it makes clear about the origins of following known technics:

    1) Spread Eagle is a bond way to spread and fix all extremities to external points such as poster bed to make breasts and pussy available for the top.
    2) Hogtie comes from the English description of "farm animal bondage". This beautiful type of bondage provides a certain degree of humiliation. The wrists are behind the back and chained to the ankle. If the female bottom is as usually on the then the vagina and bum is available for use and plug-able. The Photographer "James Bertoni" used this way of bondage primary on his website Modelstied.
    3) Teardrop holds the wrists vice versa on the abdomen with the ankles.
    4) The Frogie puts the legs together so that foot joints and thighs are connected and the hands are fixed on the backside.

These basic bondage forms are applied and adapted individually with a rope around the breasts or the vagina. This beautiful refinement is not focusing on aesthetic but enhances the feeling with a strong pressure on the pussy, spread the legs or labia or fixes objects like dildos or plugs in holes of the bottom.

5.2 Shibari - Bondage Art

Over time the Japanese BDSM-scene has the focus on Shibari or Japanese bondage which is known as a higher form and erotic art of chaining. The aesthetic factor stands in the foreground and sees the overall work as art of creation. The bottom is not necessarily unable to move but can be preliminary for SM-practice.

The way to bound is in the focus and can start with simple nodes and can go up a whole-body tie. The inability of motion is not in the foreground but rather the emphasis of feminine beauty. So there are about five different known bondage forms in Shibari:

    1) Shinju stands for chaining especially the female breasts, where they often surrounded or even be committed.
    2) Sakurambo is the shackles of the vagina so that the cord goes with or without nodes in an aesthetic though the legs or spread them.
    3) Karanda is a net-like bondage art including forms of the Shinju and Sakurambo and the whole body wrap.
    4) Tsuri or Tsurizeme is a special form of hang bondage where the entire body is artfully tied so that the person is also at only one point.
    5) Takate Kote Shibari is a very beautiful bondage technology whereby here the fixation of the hands is behind the back.

-----
I am at least 18 years of age and am familiar with all laws in my area that pertain to my right to receive and view adult-oriented material and further understand that this site contains nudity and depictions of bondage.  I have the legal right to view adult-oriented material and Jay Edwards has the legal right to transmit this material to me.  By entering this site I have released the providers, owners, and/or creators of this site, and the material within, from any and all liability which may arise.  This material is for my private use only and I agree to not redistribute or retransmit this material in any way.  All depictions in this website are portrayed by consenting adults performing in the realm of fantasy role-play and sensual play for entertainment and/or educational purposes.  Jay Edwards reserves the rights to any and all content in this website.   Bookmarking to a page on this site whereby the warning page is by-passed shall constitute an implicit acceptance of the foregoing terms set forth herein. If you agree with all of the aforementioned conditions and restrictions you may press ENTER.


Morgan is a stunningly beautiful young woman with a taste for punishment.  Her eyes flash with desire as Jay tightens the ropes.   She has trouble hiding her smile when Jay forcibly gags her.   She squeals in pleasure and pain when the clamps bite into her sensitive nipples.  She pants, she purrs, she moans, she groans.  Several ass floggings leave her flustered and confused.  Her elbows are roped together amid her grunts of protest.  None of that seems to matter to Jay -- he just keeps on tying her, gagging her, clamping her and controlling her.  She loves it, she hates it.   She takes it.

Porn star Lexxi Tyler wiggles her way through three strict elbows-together ties (two done onscreen) in an arousing display of submission and subjugation.  She is not used to being treated this way and it shows but, once again, Jay is indifferent to the desires of his captive.  She struggles helplessly as huge gags are stuffed and strapped into her mouth.  She shamelessly wraps her lips around the rubber dildo and swallows it hungrily.  Her gorgeous tits are roughly man-handled and harshly clamped despite her complaints.  Or perhaps because of them.

Jay carries in brunette and beautiful new model Layla over his shoulder already roped-up over her pretty pink dress.  It's almost difficult for us to watch Jay slap her asscheeks and breasts so roughly. Soon her bare tits are as pink as her dress and nipple-squashers only add to her (dis)pleasure.   Next, she's in a standing spreadeagle, fully nude except for her high heels and a knotted crotch rope.  "Ah, this is more like it!"  she appears to think.   That is, until Jay applies those mean little clamps to her nipples and her thighs start to feel the *real* strain of this particular position.  Maybe a gag change will take her mind off those quivering quads?   Nope.  In fact, Jay bends her over to make the tie even tougher!  Now clad in turquoise and black lingerie, Layla is lovely as she writhes on the floor - so a tight little hogtie should get her back into discomfort-mode!   Next, it's a pussy-baring frogtie for lovely Layla...until Jay suspends one of her ankles and adds big black clips to her poor nipples.   Time to perch this pretty little pet on a tall stool and dress her up in red: red heels, red gloves, red corset, red nipple-clips and the biggest red ballgag we've ever seen.   Blonde and tanned, newcomer Sydney has curves galore.  Her huge breasts alone will have you drooling but just wait until Jay goes to work on her.   Perhaps she got a bit more than she bargained for with this shoot because each new rope seems to bring with it a sweet little squeal of surprise.   Jay does a lot of handgagging over Sydney's ballgag, then covers it with a roll of white medwrap and hard slaps on her ass really get her yelping!   Sydney's fancy lingerie can barely contain her voluminous assets and when Jay whips her lush thighs and tits, she seems almost beside herself.  The next position is designed to bring out this blonde bombshell's inner "bondage-beast."  It starts out simply enough as a nude and barefoot upright frogtie, but then Jay adds those wicked little nipple tweezers and hauls her up onto knee-point in a semi-suspension.

86 minutes of two brand new bondage babes.

Blonde bondage bombshell Stacy is back in the powerful hands of Jay Edwards...luckily for us!   Stacy is so sweet and petite but she gets no gentle treatment here.   For her entire session she wears black vinyl lingerie (that leaves absolutely nothing to the imagination), high-heeled patent pumps and her signature silver belly chains.  All six of her scenes involve Jay's custom "girlie-go-round" and these ties are tough, even for this seasoned pro.   Starting out standing, Stacy receives nipple-squasher clamps and Jays red whip on her perfect, round ass.   Next, she's cuffed kneeling for an erotic session on her boobs until they are almost as red as the whip!   Kneeling again, Stacy gets clothespins on her nipples.   Her ballgag is changed to a head-harnessing panel gag, on camera.   (The difficulty of this scene causes an unmistakably real tremble in Stacy's moans.)  A kneeling strappado is next and when Jay applies another set of squasher-clamps to Stacy's hard nipples and leashes them forward, we can see that her endorphins are flowing and she has reached "sub-space"...that cozy place where a submissive can really get into it.  She actually pulls back against the tethered nipple clamps and smiles serenely!  Rewarding her excellent behavior, Jay twists Stacy into a tough backbender, chains a wooden dowel tautly between her pussy lips and then tapes a buzzing vibrator to the dowel for her pleasure!  For her final scene, Stacy wobbles on one delicate knee.   She still has the dowel wedged between her legs and her nipples are butterfly-clamped and pulled up towards the ceiling.  Jay applies a full harness ballgag (on camera) and we can see Stacy's little ankle tremble as she struggles with the difficulty of this position.  This girl is amazing!  Rounding out the program are four scenes of luscious Alexis!  The busty beauty spends her entire on camera time wearing nothing but black, high-heeled pumps so we are treated to almost every inch of her smooth, tanned skin!   She endures full head-harnessing gags, nipple clamps, extreme mouth stuffing with red medwrap (onscreen), erotic breast whippings, handgagging, two different leather single sleeves, an over-the knee spanking, and even Jay's wonderful "breast press!"   Don't miss out on seeing these two bondage supermodels in action! 

Emily waits on the couch for Mary Jane to get ready to go to a party. Mary Jane enters, dressed in a pair of tight leggings and a black corset. She explains that it would be much more fun if they stayed home and had their own party. Emily is a bit skeptical at first, but after Mary Jane grabs her foot and begins to suck on her nylon covered toes, Emily rethinks her position. After a nice bit of foot fetish, Mary Jane tells Emily that she has another game in store. Emily soon finds that this game is all about her being tied up and Mary Jane having fun with her. A vibrator comes out and Emily soon finds that being completely helpless does have its perks. One of which is being able to come over and over again. Mary Jane finally decides that Emily has had enough pleasure and leaves her to struggle alone. Sexy stuff.

Randy returns in a seriously sexy college coed bondage video. Dressed in a sheer top, tie and pantyhose, Randy does her best to try to find some way out of her quite inescapable bondage. With her arms pulled up into the small of her back, and her elbows tied as tightly as they can be, there is no way out. All Randy can do is moan and drool. Later, Jim enters and really turns up the heat, pulling her into a stringent hogtie. One of those scenes that just screams sexy. Yowza!

Ashley is strapped to the slab. Helpless and wanting, she struggles and moans, pulling at the tight straps around her wrists, ankles, knees and body. It's all for naught. Besides the squeak of the leather, she is almost unable to move... how long will she be made to wait? -and what is in store for her once he returns? The thought made her wet and her stuggles only added to her excitement. She knew that the waiting would be followed by the touch of the lash and the 

Diana Knight takes Emily Addison on a road trip in her limo... where are they going? Who cares? The trip is where it is at right here... sexy girls having fun with bondage. Just what the doctor ordered. Yummy.

Now it is Randy Moore's turn to squirm. Angela Sommers ties her up and then attaches a nice big pink strap on that she orders Randy to service as she torments her with a vibrator attached to a speed controller. If Randy performs well, she gets a reward. Although after she comes a few times and gets really sensitive, the idea of turning that vibrator to full power isn't such a reward anymore... Sexy stuff.

Carmen is perched on a tall cylindrical stool, her arms and legs welded together by wide leather straps. The big red ballgag stifles her moans as she cautiously wiggles in her bondage.   Jay walks in, slides her arms into a black single sleeve, zips it close and tightly straps her into it.   Her big tits are pulled out of her delicate lingerie and red clamps are snapped onto each side of her hard nips.    One more wide strap is used to bind her legs to the stool and black clamps are forced between the red clamps to further torment her nipples!    Carmen is neck-chained to the ceiling, as we watch Jay wrap rubber strips around her wrists, elbows, chest, waist, and shapely legs -- the thin rubber stretching to its max as she gasps and grunts into her rubber panel gag.   The cruel rubber squeezes and distorts her boobs and pussy and there's nothing she can do about it -- or the big clamps that Jay hangs from her tits!   She now must deal with thin chain used like rope: elbow-bound and crotchroped, too. Jay wraps more thin chain around her arms and chest and then he adds some tit-crushing chains. Oh, and her ballgag is held in place with thin chain and padlocked in place! Wearing a custom leather body harness, the hot blonde is bound and frog-tied with thin leather straps.   Her elbows are welded together and the huge 2.5" ballgag is strapped deep in her mouth.   The minutes stretch on as she struggles to relieve the pain of this severe bondage but all she gets is a nasty pair of tit clamps.   Neck-chained again and with handcuffs adorning her wrists and ankles, Carmen poses sexily as she explores the limits of the cold steel.   Jay adds handcuffs to her elbows and tightens thumbcuffs onto her wiggling thumbs.    He brings out three sizes of ballgags for her review and ends up stuffing the huge 2.5" ballgag between her waiting lips.   Then, out come the tits and on go the clamps!    She seems to enjoy the captivity, strutting around the room until Jay returns with the mounted dildo.   She is put on her knees, the huge gag is pulled out and she is soon sliding the thick white rod in and out of her luscious mouth.

69 minutes of an incredibly hot blonde in incredibly rough bondage

     Bound, gagged and leashed, gorgeous Natalie struggles against Jay's grip -- he grabs and gropes the poor girl then leashes her to the corner walls.   Her elbows are re-tied all the way together and then roped into her crotchrope.   Her perfect tits are pulled free and clamped before her ankles are roped wide apart.   Frog-tied and tit-tied, the lovely blonde writhes on the floor, her crotchrope riding up into her pretty pussy.   Sticky duct tape is slapped over her white ballgag and her elbows are re-tied together. Seated in the slave chair with her lovely legs spread, Natalie gets a big dose of tit play followed by intricate breast bondage.   Her elbows are re- tied together again and she is re-gagged with a custom harness ballgag.  Jay returns to further rope up his captive and leaves her to suffer.   Now bound and gagged in a gorgeous corset, Natalie is pulled into a strappado, roped neck to knees and then rammed from behind.   Her grunts are replaced with whines when her elbows are re-tied together again!  Elbow-bound and ballgagged, the beautiful blonde sits an a stool waiting for more abuse.   Tit play, clamp play and more rope is followed with another harness ballgag re-gagging and more clamp play.   Classically bound on the girlie-go-round, Natalie moans into a chinstrap ballgag that is soon covered with duct tape.   Blue clothespins are snapped onto her tits, her elbows are re-tied together and she is roped to the ceiling so she isn't going anywhere.  All six scenes feature elbows-together bondage. 

A seriously sexy set of Sadie Belle - haven't posted her in a long time and I thought it might be nice to revisit her. Awesome legs and and the highest arches around - and with her elbows welded together and a nice big ball gag in her mouth - What a wonderful sight indeed.

In Chapter 3 of Curious Obsession 2 - Angela Sommer awakens to find Randy gone. She slips downstairs and finds a note explaing that Randy has been called away to work, but to make herself at home. Angela does so, checking in the closet for an outfit to wear, she finds instead a closet full of fetish wear. She decides if Randy is going to be at work that she should have a little fun. She puts on the outfit only to be lured into Randy's playroom by a phone call. Randy has laid a trap and Angela finds out too late. Unable to resist the lure of Randy's self bondage table, she lays down and straps herself in - and then becomes trapped when the wrists and ankles tighten down.

Then after the vibrator automatically locks in place, she is in for an even more crazy ride. Eventually Randy does return, but only to gag the helpless Angela and turn the vibrator up to full power. It seems that Angela is going to ride the bondage table for quite awhile longer.

You've asked for it, and now it's here. No fluff, just a bunch of really great bondage scenes from some seriously sexy girls. Whether your tastes fall into the pure animal sexuality, or teasing, distress or uncontrolled laughter, there is certainly something for you here.

The video starts off with Amber climbing on the bed and spreadeagling herself. Unfortunately, she doesn't expect Jim to come home and is caught - so Jim does what you would think - shows her really what bondage is all about. A tight spreadeagle vibrator scene is up first, followed by a very stringent pole tie; But that is only the beginning. The ropes turn to thin twine as she is tied up and left to struggle on the carpet (tough scene) and then is has to deal with one of my favorites, a hands to the waist with elbows touching frog tie... Lots of tickling here... Then she gets tied on a stool and vibrated and tickled until she doesn't know whether she is coming or going...

Then it's Sasha Monet's turn. She gets a package in the mail - A lovely set of lingerie that she just has to try on. A day dream in which she is very tightly hogtied... Then later, Sasha gets into the self bondage mode herself - and shows everyone just how sexy she can be.

Stringent bondage, orgasms, tickling

Slick City: The Adventures of Lela Devin (2001)
In the year 2011, virtual reality is within reach. When two of Lela's friends create the first virtuaslave program, they promptly go missing. She sets out to discover the truth. Soon, Lela herself becomes embroiled in a plot far more devious which it threatens her life and the lives of her friends. 






A Slave Girl of Freehold

By Xaltatun of Acheron (A Pseudonym)

This work is copyright 2001 by Xaltatun of Acheron (A Pseudonym). It may be posted on the Internet to any free forum, provided it is not modified in any way, and provided that this notice is included in its entirety. It may not be sold, or included in any compilation that is sold, or posted on any forum that requires a fee for access, without my written permission. My permission will require payment, terms to be negotiated. For purposes of this notice, sites guarded by Adult Check or similar packages are considered pay sites. Posting on any site must include this copyright notice.

Adult Content Warning - this story contains adult themes, including non-consensual bondage/slavery. It could also prove highly disturbing if you think our current socio/political worldview is the only one that exists. If you are under the lawful age for such materials (18 in most jurisdictions) or if you would find such material offensive, please go elsewhere.

There are currently four stories in the Freehold series:

1. A Slave Girl of Freehold
2. A Ponygirl of Freehold
3. The Field Ecologist’s Ponygirl (sequel to A Ponygirl of Freehold)
4. Delivery Ponyboy

Some additional background on Freehold, in particular, how it happened, is in the story “The Curtain Falls, The Curtain Rises,” the end of the Ponygirl Transformation series.

The name Freehold has no relationship to any other use of the term by any other author. No connection should be assumed, either derivative or as a base for parody.

Safety Warning. This story may contain descriptions of practices that are decidedly unsafe, either in general, or if performed by someone without adequate training. There are a number of good books available on safety in the BDSM scene. Most large cities, and some not so large ones, have organized BDSM groups that will usually welcome a newcomer. I’m not going to point out which practices are safe, and which aren’t. Any practice is unsafe if performed by someone with inadequate training and experience, or if performed when not paying attention. Please think before you act. Don’t make yourself a candidate for a Darwin award.

OK - now on to the story -------

Chapter 1.

Here I am, kneeling at the workstation in my room, and the computer has just asked me how I got into this situation. It’s a question I would rather not look at. But if I want to avoid being frog marched onto the boat when my sentence is up, I had better. I prefer walking out and waving goodbye to being slung out on my ass. It’s much less embarrassing.
The White King told Alice to "Begin at the beginning, go on to the end, then stop." Unfortunately, that begs the question. Where is the beginning?
I suppose it began when my sister took a whip to one of the municipal taxi ponygirls. And then I stood up for her, and tried to get her off the hook she had so neatly impaled herself on.
Chapter 2. Pretrial Proceedings

I sputtered to a stop. I had tried entreaties, bribes, threats of my father’s wrath, and, if truth be known, sex. I had asked for a competent attorney. The ambassador had simply sat there, and waited for me to run down.
"Miss Stone. In all the babble you have flung at me, there are two issues that I can explain."
"First, your father the Senator has been apprised of the situation. There is nothing he can do; he has no leverage in this situation. This may not seem possible. He is, indeed a powerful man, but Freehold will not brook interference in things that it regards as fundamental. Freehold will not allow visitors to commit crimes and then leave."
"Second. You have asked for an attorney. I could get you one, but it would be a waste of money. Freehold law does not operate on the adversary system. All an attorney can do is investigate the facts, and explore possible remedies. The facts are not in dispute. Nor is the analysis or the remedy."
I stared at him. I’m not used to being in a position where I cannot apply leverage. It leaves me feeling, well, little.
"But. What can we do for Amy?"
"Nothing. The system will have its say. It may help you to know what the charge is, and why the sentence will be what it is."
"Your sister has been charged with using at tool with which she has not demonstrated competence. She has also been charged with not knowing the whip signals we train our ponygirls on for situations when we cannot use voice commands. She’s also been charged with non-consensual inclusion of a person in a sexual game, specifically, sado-masochism.
"I could probably get the second charge dropped by pointing out that there was no intent to use the whip signals in the first place. But there’s no point. The only effect that charge will have is that she will have to learn them, and pass a test on them. Since she is probably going to start her sentence as a ponygirl, she will learn them anyway from the ponygirl’s perspective. Since the first charge insures that she will have to learn how to use a whip properly, intersecting the two should be trivial."
"The third charge is, in fact, the critical one. Freehold does not regard sadism or masochism, as currently defined, to be an issue. It does regard the non-consensual inclusion of someone in a sado-masochistic game as a criminal offense, demonstrating a very low level of social responsibility.
"The first charge demonstrates a low level of personal responsibility. So, she will be placed in a position that is appropriate for both. In other words, she will probably become a ponygirl, and start in the municipal taxi service."
"That seems like a warped sense of justice."
"Justice, in the sense of symmetry, has nothing to do with it. The fact that she assaulted a ponygirl has nothing to do with her becoming one. Her demonstrated lack of both social and personal responsibility is what lands her there. The symmetry is more apparent than real."
"I don’t understand."
"At this point, you don’t need to. Let’s leave Amy, and go on to you. Tell me what you are charged with."
"Uh, something about trying to help Amy avoid responsibility for her actions?"
"Exactly. If you had the wisdom to have kept your mouth shut, we would be having this conversation in my study rather than in the Hall of Justice."
I must have looked like a landed fish. "That’s just bizarre."
"Well, it must seem so. You are the daughter of a politician in the mainland political system. Lie, cover up, spin-doctor and evade runs in your blood. Making someone face the consequences of their actions is the least likely thing you would do. In truth, there was absolutely nothing you could do for your sister. Anything you did would land yourself in a tar pit. Which you have done."
"What are they likely to do to me?"
"I’m not absolutely certain. The level of social responsibility demonstrated by your actions is noticeably higher than your sister’s. And your level of personal responsibility has not been called into question. So it’s unlikely that they would start you off as a ponygirl. Probably personal slave, but that’s just a guess."
"So, just roll with it?"
"That seems to be best. I can tell you one more thing. Freehold is absolutely adamant that everyone has the chance to advance. That is, to demonstrate higher levels of responsibility. I’m not allowed to tell you how that works out. You will have to ask someone at the appropriate time."
We left the interview room to see the judge.
Chapter 3. The Trial.

From my point of view, the trial was a farce. Obviously, Freehold thought that the procedure was appropriate. The judge sat behind a desk with a data console. His clerk sat next to him. The three of us sat in widely separated chairs. I noticed two man-mountains positioning themselves behind Amy’s chair. I also noticed some equipment on a back table. I doubt that Amy noticed; she was seething.
The clerk called Amy’s case. The judge stated the complaints. Amy denied everything. The judge had the surveillance shots displayed. They showed exactly what happened. The picture quality wasn’t Hollywood, but it was adequate. Amy looked shocked. I was shocked, I had no idea that they had that level of surveillance.
He asked Amy again if she had anything to say. She started a tirade. Pure, vintage Amy. After a minute, the judge nodded to one of the bruisers behind her chair. He put his hand on her neck. She shut up with a startled "eep."
He looked at me. "Miss Stone. Do you have anything to add?"
Mother didn’t raise a complete fool. "No, your honor. The facts appear to be as stated. I don’t have enough knowledge of your system to determine if the charges correspond to the facts." I shut up.
He looked at me and nodded. "Ambassador?"
"The second charge appears to be redundant, your honor."
The judge looked at his readouts. "It certainly seems so. Your suggestion?"
"I believe that the additional requirements are comparatively minor. I would suggest leaving them in, but making them optional."
The judge looked at his readout again. "So noted. Anything else?"
"No, your honor."
The judge looked at Amy. "Rise and face the bench." She didn’t move. The bruiser behind her hauled her to her feet. By the neck. He still had hold of it.
"You are given seven years to correct the deficiencies in your social and personal responsibility ratings. If you succeed within this time, all rights as a visitor will be restored at the time you succeed. If you fail, you will be removed from this island at the end of seven years. You will not be allowed to return."
"You will start your reeducation as a ponygirl, most probably in the municipal taxi service."
She started to struggle. She never had a chance. The first bruiser shifted his grip from her neck to her waist. The second bruiser put his hands inside her pants, front and back. The first bruiser pulled up. They shucked her like an ear of corn. Then they reversed position, and the top came off with the sound of ripping cloth. The one behind picked up a bunch of chains and cuffs from the table, and fastened her arms behind her back. Then he silenced her with a ball gag and bridle. He added a collar as the last touch. Then he let her go.
She tried to kick one of them. Without arms, all she managed was to fall on her ass. They hauled her up. She tried again. Same result. They hauled her up again. This time she stood there. One of them snapped a leash on her collar and led her out.
I shut my mouth. I noticed that the other bruiser was standing behind my chair.
The judge looked at me. "Miss Stone. You appeared startled."
"You certainly didn’t waste any time in executing the sentence."
"Not at that level of responsibility. There is no point to it."
He called my case. He read the charge.
"Miss Stone. Do you have any comments?"
"No, your honor. The facts are as stated."
He looked startled. Then he smiled. "Ambassador?"
"No, your honor. The facts are as stated. The charge appears to be correct."
The judge faced me again. "In your case, your personal responsibility appears to be substantially higher than your social responsibility." The way he emphasized "appears" had my complete and undivided attention. I had the image of a yawning cavern under my feet, just a misstep away.
"This gives me the opportunity to do something for you. You will start out as a personal slave. Your lack of social responsibility mandates that. However, you can be assigned to the Ambassador’s household. That, and your personal responsibility rating, will give you the opportunity to have experiences more in keeping with your social and political standing than the run of household duties which a personal slave normally is assigned." Again, the way he emphasized "opportunity" had my antenna out and quivering.
"There will be a number of behavioral tests. All of them will not be announced or explained in advance."
"Personal slave training is done in classes. The next one starts in four days. If you had a lower personal responsibility rating, you would spend the next four days in confinement. At your perceived rating, I can offer you the opportunity to continue to enjoy the hospitality of the city, as long as you give me your word to report for personal slave training at the appointed time."
I stared at him in shock. I had been expecting to be shucked like my sister, and lead away in chains. "I accept, of course. May I ask a question?"
"Certainly."
"If I had refused, would my personal responsibility rating have gone down?"
"Very perceptive question. Yes, it would have. Can you tell me why?"
"It seems that responsibility needs to be exercised; it’s not like a certificate on the wall."
"Excellent!" he made a note on his console.
"Please stand."
I stood. I had the feeling that the big bruiser was now farther back in the room.
"You are given five years to correct the deficiencies in your social and personal responsibility ratings. If you succeed within this time, all rights as a visitor will be restored at the time you succeed. If you fail, you will be removed from this island at the end of five years. You will not be allowed to return."
"You will start as a personal slave. The court accepts your personal bond that you will report for training at the designated time. If your training proves satisfactory, you will be assigned to the Ambassador’s household."
"Case closed." The clerk held out a card. It had an address and time on it. It had some other information on the back.
I left with the ambassador. He offered me a lift back to my hotel. I accepted, of course. Right now, I was completely disoriented. We left the building.
Chapter 4. Interlude with chords

His ponygirl was tied to the hitching rack. She was still hitched to the cart he used. It was suitable for two adults. He asked if I would like to drive.
I shuddered. "No, thank you. I’m certain that she can handle traffic much better than I can drive her."
He smiled. "Tell her your hotel."
I did. She nodded. He unhitched the reins, and we got in. He gave them a flick, and she started maneuvering the cart away from the rail and into traffic. We talked, but what it boiled down to was: keep your nose pointed in the right direction, and keep moving.
We got to the hotel, and I got out. He moved to the middle of the cart, and said "Home." The girl began moving the cart.
I entered the hotel lobby. First things first. Since Amy had been sent down, either they had checked her out, or I would have to do it. Go over and talk to a clerk. Admit to being embarrassed, that usually gets people on your side.
The clerk checked, and Amy was still on the hotel room. She didn’t quite know how to handle it; apparently the justice system took care of these details. Loose end left for me to either tie up or trip over. She called her supervisor. He called his manager. She asked me if I had a docket number. I pulled out the card the clerk had given me. There it was. She punched it in, and that took care of Amy.
"Ma’am, as long as you’re here, I’ve got kind of an odd question. I also got convicted. I’m out on personal recognizance until Thursday." She set up a leave date for Thursday morning for me. Efficient. "I believe there is some kind of advancement training system? Could I get access to it?"
She started playing tunes on her chord board. She asked for my ID. I gave it to her. Then she asked for the docket number. I gave it to her. She played some more tunes. Then she smiled, and told me how to access it.
I headed up to my room. Next thing was to get to daddy before the Ambassador. Not that I thought the Ambassador would tell him anything I wouldn’t, but I should be in first. I didn’t want to give anyone the impression I was slacking off on facing things. I punched in daddy’s private office phone number. His secretary put me right through.
"Hey Sandra. I wasn’t expecting you to be able to call. The ambassador said you’d be put down promptly."
"Well, I’m out on personal recognizance until Thursday morning. That’s when I have to report."
"Oh, this is interesting. Tell me about Amy first."
"They put Amy down to ponygirl. They took her off about an hour ago; she’s probably at their training center now. I got put down to personal slave, but the next class doesn’t start until Thursday. If I keep my nose clean, I get assigned to the Ambassador."
"I don’t understand."
"I don’t completely understand either. But they seemed to think that it was a good thing for me. He can probably explain it to you."
We talked about a few other things, and then hung up. Mother next. She took it well. I guess she had been prepared to not talk to either of us for years. I resolved to call her Wednesday night.
The next thing on my list was the computer. The chord board was out in plain sight; I just hadn’t had a clue about what it was for. I stuck my card in the slot. This time the menu had an additional item: Citizen Training. I used the touch pad, and a new screen came up.
"Good Afternoon Sandra. Do you know how to use the chord board?" There were Yes, No and Refresher buttons. I pushed No. I hadn’t a clue; it didn’t look like any computer keyboard I had ever seen. It looked more like somebody had taken the two ends of an accordion and randomized them.
It started training. The computer was cheerfully ruthless. That suited me; the sooner I learned how to use it, the sooner I could get into something else useful. The computer called a halt to practice when it thought I was getting tired. It suggested a practice schedule. In three days, I developed a fair facility with the thing. That didn’t mean I could use it efficiently; I was still spelling stuff out that had assigned chords. It would take quite a while to master the entire vocabulary.
Besides chord board practice, I enjoyed myself. Good food, seeing shows, sunning myself. There was no point in denying myself things I didn’t expect to be able to do for the next four or five years.
Chapter 5. Slave Training

Thursday morning dawned. I finished packing, had a light breakfast and checked out. I made certain I was wearing nothing I would regret losing. I took a municipal ponygirl taxi to the address on the card. Getting in was a comedy routine. Almost without exception, the new class was composed of either ex-ponygirls coming directly from their stable, or miscellaneous miscreants shipped over from confinement. They didn’t know what to do with me. Eventually we found the line where the other fifteen class members were queued up.
I introduced myself to the supervisor. He checked. "Good. You’re on time. We don’t get very many entrants out on personal recognizance."
"That’s what the judge implied."
"Shed those clothes. We’ll supply what you need." I shed them. He pointed to a wastebasket. I dumped them in and joined the end of the line. Most of us got a tunic and sandals. The ex-ponies got high-heeled pumps instead of sandals. I suspect that their feet couldn’t take flats until they adjusted. We all got a leather collar with our name on a plate on the front. It was riveted in back.
Training was split into several parts. One part was position training. We had to learn ten positions, and get them down acceptably. They ran from kneeling to various ways to stand.
Another part was housekeeping. We were drilled on the standard housekeeping chores, from cleaning through cooking and laundry. Also how to keep a closet, lay out clothes, elementary style matching, and grooming. It seemed to be funny at first, until I realized that everybody was having trouble with some of the tasks. Being upper class, I was having trouble with more than most. The only thing that saved me was the computer. It had a housekeeping class, and it kept pace with what I was being taught. I’m not certain I would ever have learned how to fold a fitted sheet without its clear, straightforward diagrams and step-by-step instructions.
The third piece was deportment. That was equally difficult. I was used to running things; I had to learn how to be a servant. It brought delineation of responsibility into sharp focus. It also brought home the exact level of responsibility expected of a personal slave. For the ex-ponies, it was a step up. For the rest of us, it was a major step down. What brought it home was that under most circumstances, I had to request permission to use the crapper. The only difference between the others and me is that the instructors expected me to be able to do more complex tasks that took longer. A higher personal responsibility rating didn’t give me any less supervision.
Another piece was personal hygiene. I was surprised by some of the stuff in it, but I had less trouble than most. The ex-ponies had it the toughest. They had spent the last couple of years, and sometimes longer, not having to worry about where they evacuated. They actually had to be toilet trained all over again. I would have been embarrassed out of my mind, but they seemed to accept it.
Eventually, it ended. As expected, I got assigned to the ambassador’s household. The rest had been put up for auction, and were told their assignments. They didn’t get to see the auction; it had been done on the net. All the owners had supervisor ratings.
Chapter 6. At the Embassy.

He came to pick me up personally. As trained, I knelt in front of him, hands clasped behind me, head down. He picked my head up to where we could lock eyes. Then he laughed, told me to get up and follow him. He had his personal ponygirl there; she got us back to the embassy with her usual efficiency.
He started me off on the personal tasks I had been trained on. Once I had gotten his preferences down, he started me on office tasks. Each task was introduced by the appropriate courses on the computer. A lot of them were quite interesting, since he didn’t have me do anything by rote. That may have been ok for folding sheets, but if I had to compose a letter for his signature, I had better know both the administrative department it was going to, and the subject matter it covered. In depth. That was one intense year. There were times when a single letter took a week’s worth of study. The ambassador never let up; I could expect an impromptu quiz on just about any piece of office work.
By the end of the year, he had turned over a fair amount of both his office and his personal routine to me. That didn’t mean that I escaped evaluation. That went on constantly. It did mean that I didn’t need specific orders to do something. He was bridging me to the next level.
When the level exam came around, I passed handily. I was now a household slave. That meant I could ditch the collar. I could also wear normal street clothes unless the household required a uniform. The Embassy did, but it was common to just about everyone; it didn’t mark me as special. It also meant I started working outside of the embassy quite a bit. To start on it, I had to take courses on how to handle ponygirls, and also on the municipal map.
Then the computer told me I had to take the deputy supervisor’s course. I hadn’t known there was such a thing. Supervisor was several major steps above where I was; I didn’t need to get there in order to finish the sentence.
These courses are part of your sentence. You failed to discharge your supervisory responsibility toward your sister correctly. Granted, there was no formal designation, but you did feel enough of a sense of responsibility to take action supposedly on her behalf. That is one of the parts of supervisory responsibility.
I looked at that. I had a bad feeling about this. I asked if I would have to supervise Amy.
That would seem to be the best way to bring the lessons to bear.
I asked about the curriculum. I got hit with a list of courses that looked like it would take me into the next century. So I asked for a recommendation of where I should start.
At least half of these courses are basic supervisory psychology. Since you have been supervising servants from before you were here, you should be able to pass most of them with little trouble. You should start on accessing records pertaining to Amy and her performance reports.
So I signed up for that course. Then I talked to the Ambassador. After verifying my curriculum, he confirmed my worst fears. She hadn’t taken a new course in almost a year. She was spending all of her computer time playing games and chatting. We discussed strategy for motivating her.
I went through the records course quickly. It wasn’t that different from most of the office work I had been doing. The differences were content, not form. Then he gave me access to all of the Embassy ponygirls’ records. Some of them surprised me. His personal pony, for example, was a career ponygirl.
She had been a minor criminal on the mainland, and had fled here, without knowing what the deal was. Once she got settled on the municipal taxi service, she realized that she wouldn’t be able to make full citizen; she just didn’t want that level of responsibility. If she’d really been interested in housekeeping, she’d have gotten married back on the mainland, and kept house. So she decided to stay a ponygirl. I can’t say I blamed her.
I wondered. I asked the computer if Amy could apply for immigration if she intended to stay a pony.
Of course. The seven year limit only applies to visitors. If she decides to immigrate, it will make absolutely no difference to her status, except that she will not be kicked out five years from now.
Somehow, I didn’t think it would be wise to mention it to her. Wise for my advancement, not hers.
When the Ambassador and the computer thought I was ready, they transferred Amy from the municipal taxi to the Embassy stables. She was assigned as my personal pony. That didn’t mean that I was the only person on staff who could use her. It meant that the stablemaster had to check my schedule before assigning her to anyone else. They didn’t tell me first. Typical.
While all this was going on, I had my regular staff work, and other special projects. Right now, I was learning the Freehold customs and immigration system. That meant I had to spend quite a bit of time over there.
I usually took a pony and cart, unless I expected to be there for several hours. Then I took a taxi so that one of our ponies wouldn’t have to stand there, swishing her tail, for hours on end. So I simply asked for a pony, and walked down to the stables.
Chapter 7. Amy at the Embassy.

It had started out like any day. When I woke, I used the computer to check my mail. Then I plunged my head into my feeding bowl, and snarffed up breakfast. The stable lad led me out of my stall, sent me through the milker, and switched me to two footed mode. The next thing should have been to be hitched to a taxi, and get my assignment to a taxi stand.
It never happened. Instead, my reins were tied to the back of another taxi. One of the supervisors told me I was being reassigned to a private stable. She got in the taxi, and we took off.
Now, if this was a romance, I would have been blindfolded, and it would have been years until the hero showed up to rescue me, and I found out where I was.
But this was Freehold. The only thing we ponygirls did was haul things around. We were it in the haulage department. Freehold did not have cars, vans, trucks, hovercraft or anything else of the sort. So, while they didn’t tell me where I was going, I had absolutely no trouble identifying it when we got there. It was the Embassy. It wasn’t the most popular destination, but I had been here before. I suspected that things were looking up.
She handed me off to the stablemaster, and headed off to wherever she was going next. The stablemaster replaced my collar, and handed me off to one of the stable lads. He switched me back to four footed mode, and put me in a stall. This was my new home for a while. I checked the bowl, looking for something new. Nope, same old ponygirl treats.
The stable lad came back.
"OK, Flowers. You’ve got a passenger."
He unlatched the gate, and I trotted out of the stall after him. He switched me back to two footed mode, put my harness on, and hitched me to a cart. I waited for my passenger.
The next thing I knew, Sandra was walking toward me. She was dressed in an understated version of the Embassy uniform. I stared at her in shock. I hadn’t known she was here. Nobody had told me. Mom and Dad certainly had to have known. She looked just as stunned. Then she walked up.
"Hi, Flowers. Take me to the Immigration building down at the port." Then she unhitched my reins, and got in. I felt the pattern of tension that meant she had looped them over the front of the cart. That was one of the standard signals that I was in control of the affair; she didn’t want to drive.
My training took over, and I took off. Driving in Freehold traffic took all of my concentration. Not that Freehold City has anything like the traffic of other cities I have known, but it also doesn’t have any distinction between street and sidewalk. Also, they planted trees and grass wherever they felt like it. The effect is pretty. I thought it was one of the most beautiful cities I had ever seen. Right now, I wished they had paid more attention to traffic planning.
When I got us there, she looped my reins over a hitching rack and went in the building. I stood there, swishing my tail and thinking about the situation. What she was doing was an absolute puzzle. The Ambassador had told me that they would send her down for trying to bail me out of the situation. It sure didn’t look like it. On the other hand, what was she doing here? It was like she hadn’t expected to see me, and then she had.
She came out, unhitched my reins, and told me to take her back to the Embassy. I headed back out into traffic. When we got there, the stable lad unhitched me, took off my harness, put me back in four footed mode, and put me back in my stall. She was there, leaning over the front.
"Oh, good. You’re back. We’ve got some stuff to talk about. Official, not personal."
I stared at her in shock. Then reality asserted itself. If she was official, that meant I might get some answers.
"I’m you’re new supervisor. The stable staff is still in charge of everything having to do with your life as a ponygirl, running the stable, your assignments and so forth. That doesn’t change. You can think of me more as a trainer, although that isn’t really close. I know nothing about training ponygirls."
"Uh, I though they sent you down."
"They did. I’m still serving my sentence. I entered one level higher than you, and I got a major level promotion. Since my personal responsibility was never called into question, I’m doing things that are not normally part of this level. That doesn’t mean I’m out from under. If the Ambassador says jump, I’d better be in the air before I ask how high."
"How close am I to a jump?"
"Not at all. You’re dead in the water. You are on track to being taken out of your stall and slung out of here on your ass in another five years. I’ve seen a few. You go onto the ship naked. The shipping company isn’t going to give you any clothes, so you go off the ship naked. It isn’t pretty. Especially since they’re likely to arrest you at the other end for indecent exposure."
I’m afraid I almost went into shock. I actually swayed on my hooves for a moment.
"Oh, shit. I was afraid of that. What do I have to do?"
"You tell me. Everything you need to do to get moving is right in front of you. You don’t need any equipment or permissions you don’t have."
More shock. She was supposed to help. "What!?"
"If you really, really can’t figure it out, ask again tomorrow. I’ll tell you then. But it’ll be on your record. Not that it’s a major item, but you can’t afford too many minor items. If you figure it out, I’ll know. There are steps that will be real obvious to you."
I stared at her.
"I’ll see you tomorrow. It looks like the stablemaster wants to talk to you."
She left. The stablemaster came over, and went over the local ground rules. They weren’t that different from the municipal taxi, other than they expected a slightly higher level of deportment. Embassy, and all that. As a politician’s daughter, it made sense.
I had four more trips out that day. One with Sandra, three with other Embassy staff members. Sandra didn’t treat me any different than she would have treated any other ponygirl.
That evening, I went to put on the VR helmet to do my usual run of games, chats and mail. Then I stared at it in shock. What was this obviously expensive piece of equipment doing in a ponygirl’s stall? I’m sure they could have figured out a cheaper way of keeping us happy.
I put it on, and called up the main menu. There it was. Citizen Training. I had used it once, to study the municipal road system, over a year and a half ago. I still used it to check on changes. But I hadn’t used it for anything else.
I went in. There was a list of courses, none of which looked in the least interesting. There was also a checkbox labeled "Advisor". It was off. I toggled it on.
Good evening, Amy. I see you are with us again. Do you have any questions?
"Uh, I’m not certain where to start."
That’s actually not the worst place to start. Confessing one’s ignorance lets you get it out of the way so you can actually learn something.
"But, what does folding laundry have to do with anything?"
That’s actually one of the job requirements for the next step up.
I stared at it. "What is the next step up?"
Personal slave. It is one major step above ponygirl.
"And Sandra started there?"
Yes. She took all of the courses specified for the level. She did satisfactorily.
We discussed curriculum. It suggested I sign off of the course work. I did, even though I still had time before lights out. Then all of the chats came up. Oh, shit. I really, really didn’t want to deal with them. Then reality hit again. I wasn’t ever going to join them again. There was simply no time. So I composed a polite note of apology and posted it to all of them, and then cancelled them. The VR multi-person games took more work. I had to withdraw in an orderly fashion; I really hated it when players just vanished. I terminated most of my mail correspondences the same way I had with the chats, except more personally.
When I signed on the next morning, my recommended course list had changed. Some of the more boring stuff had vanished. It had been replaced by other courses that looked marginally more interesting. I asked why.
We liked the way you terminated the chats and games. You could have simply dropped them. Instead, you took the time to do so in an orderly and appropriate manner. Without being told. Both your social and personal responsibility levels have risen as a consequence.
That one comment probably meant more to me than most of the complements I have ever received.
My first passenger was Sandra. She said, "Good going, kid. Take me to Customs and Immigration at the waterfront." She got in, and I maneuvered my cart and passenger out into traffic.
Chapter 8. Customs and Immigration

In addition to everything else, I had been going through some of the Freehold government departments that interfaced with the Embassy. They were quite willing to do the Ambassador a favor and allow me to do so. Having a mainland politician who actually understood how Freehold operated was something they regarded positively.
At this point, my study was Customs and Immigration. That was one of the departments that interfaced quite closely with the rest of the world; after all, everyone from outside came through this building. It was the first piece of Freehold anyone ever saw. I had been working with one of the planners on exactly why the process was laid out the way it was. Some of the pieces were ruthlessly efficient.
The ambassador had gotten two calls. One was from the Senator. He had managed to get his schedule clear to make a visit. He wanted to see how his daughters were doing. The other was from the supervisor in charge of the Customs and Immigration operation. The woman who normally did the Visitors orientation was out sick, could he see his way clear to having me fill in? This was unusual, to say the least. One government did not normally ask a citizen of another government to handle a fairly critical, if routine, function. But then, Freehold was not normal.
He said yes. Then he told me about it. I was not really on speaking terms with choice those days. Especially when it was the Ambassador speaking.
"Will the Senator be staying with us?"
He said yes. The head housekeeper was already readying one of the guest rooms. So I called the stable, and told them that I needed the larger cart for Joyful Flowers. She’d managed to solve the problem I gave her yesterday in fine fashion. It was way too early to tell if that was all it was going to take, but the signs looked hopeful.
When I saw her, I congratulated her, and then had her take me to the C&I building. Checking the setup and discussing last minute details with the supervisor took a few minutes. She would normally have filled in. She would be in the room anyway, unnoticeable in back, just in case she was needed or I messed up. Freehold did as little as possible by chance.
Then the boat came in. There were around a hundred visitors, and maybe a dozen immigrants. Immigration was a different lecture; there were very different requirements. Daddy came down the portable stairway in the middle of the crowd. Trust a politician to project the common touch, even if there were no constituents present. I waited until the queue formed for the initial identity check; and then went to meet him.
He saw me coming.
"Hey, Sandra, I didn’t know they’d let you loose to greet me!"
"Loose? When the Ambassador says frog, I go ribbit. He’s killing two birds with one stone. He’d probably have sent me anyway, but I’ve got something else to do here." I stepped back for effect. "You look great. A couple days on the ferry seem to have agreed with you."
"Being away from my pager will do that. Where’s Amy?"
"Tied to the hitching rack in front, waiting for us and your bags."
He looked a bit glassy-eyed, the he rallied. "You know, I should have expected that."
"Yeah, I know what you mean. I still don’t really understand the ponygirl system. Even though it works. She just got transferred from municipal taxi to the Embassy yesterday. If she was still in municipal taxi, I wouldn’t have been able to reserve her."
"How’s she doing?"
"Physically? No problems at all. She’s amazingly healthy, but then, all the ponygirls are. Something certainly seems to agree with them. Working on getting out of here before she’s tossed out? Not good at all, but her supervisor thinks she might have gotten through to her yesterday."
The line had moved up.
"Got to run. Talk to you after the orientation lecture."
The orientation room was filling up. I noticed someone I hadn’t expected to see. Princess Jeanette.
"Introduce me to your father. Then I want to talk to you while the show is running."
Dad had come in, so I made the introductions. She made noises about a trade treaty. He mentioned extradition, she laughed. They both knew there would never be an extradition treaty, but he had to mention it for form’s sake. I picked up the final list from the Customs desk. There were six names flagged for special attention.
I stepped up to the podium. The room fell silent. Princess Jeanette and the section supervisor sat in back, watching.
I started the pitch. Most of it was choreographed. "Welcome to Freehold." I ran through a bunch of PR stuff, and then started calling names. The first three on my list were frequent commercial visitors. They took the precaution of retaking the visitor’s exam every three months just to make certain they hadn’t forgotten anything. They left.
The next three had been here once before. "You’ve been here before, but you need to retake the test. You can go into the testing room now, or go through the orientation lecture." Two of them showed intelligence. They stayed for the lecture. The third one headed into the testing room. She was the one with the just discovered criminal record that she had not declared. The door closed behind her. I heard a muffled thud. I hoped she enjoyed being a ponygirl.
I started the show, and left the room with the Princess. She got right to the point.
"Sandra, have you considered immigrating?"
I’m afraid I stared. "I thought I had a couple more years before I needed to think about that."
"Actually, we did too. But your evaluation board met last month, and your ratings have gone up. Substantially. You’re due for a double jump, which satisfies all of the requirements of your sentence except one. And you may have done that yesterday."
"Amy. Yes, that needs to percolate a bit. If she has actually decided to get herself going, she’ll be all right. She’s pretty determined when she finally makes up her mind."
"I thought so when I reviewed the file. She’s got no interest in government, however, so we really don’t care about her. The system can handle her adequately. You do."
"I thought I was too far behind to reach the top."
"That’s mostly a carefully fostered illusion. When you get high enough for the Prince or Princess courtesy title, you’re at the top. We do what we’re suited for and what needs doing. Rankings within that are mostly for show. You should be able to reach that ranking within a decade. Granted, that’s a decade behind where I am, but others will get there later than that."
"Well, think about it. The offer will remain open, even if you chose to return to the mainland and then come back. Of course, that could lose you some ground."
She turned and went back into the Orientation room. I followed. That was the Princess to a T.
The show ended. I fielded a number of questions. The only hard part came when some guy started asking mainland newsie type questions. I looked at the Princess. She signaled with her finger across her throat.
"Sir, Freehold strongly suggests that you turn around and leave on the boat you arrived on."
He sputtered. What probably made up his mind was when two of the man-mountains that C&I employs walked up behind me and looked at him. That ended the questions. Almost everyone trooped into the examination room. The newsie stared at the man-mountains, and decided to cash in his return ticket immediately.
The Senator had done his homework, so he finished the test with an exemplary score. As people finished I welcomed them personally, and showed them the door out. Usually, we didn’t have ponygirl candidates in the visitor crowd; the criminals tended to come in through Immigration.
Everyone finished up. I snagged a porter, and had the Senator’s bags loaded into the Embassy cart. The Princess said she was coming with us to the Embassy; the Senator would ride with her. Oh, by the way, arrange for Amy to be able to talk to her father.
Joyful Flowers was staring at dad as if she had seen a ghost. When I told her to head back to the Embassy, she almost balked. Then she guided the cart out into traffic, and did her usual excellent job of getting us there in one piece, undented.
I stopped the stable lad from leading her away, and called the stablemaster over.
"Her father is in town from the mainland. Princess Jeanette has given orders that she is to be able to talk to him."
The stablemaster looked startled. We talked about arrangements. The stable lad lead Flowers away, she didn’t need to know about them until they happened.
 
Chapter 9. Amy II

Sandra had left me hitched to the rail in front of the C&I building. I’d been here before with her, and a number of times when I was with the Municipal Taxi Service. Then, I hadn’t been hitched, taxi ponygirls just stood at the taxi stand until someone needed them.
Part of my training had been in standing, either hitched to a rail, or with my reins grounded. This doesn’t sound like that big a deal. Just try standing in one place for eight hours. Without either fidgeting, or going insane. They taught me isometrics for the physical issues. That’s not exactly correct. They taught me the necessary muscle movements to keep my body supple in the two positions I would be in for extended periods of time.
The mental adjustment was a lot harder, but like everything I was trained in, inevitable. I was taught a special state of mind that was just waiting. It was close to pure awareness, but not quite. I’d heard of pure awareness in some spiritual studies I had brushed against, and then avoided. This state kept me aware of my training. Otherwise, I could have had someone come up to use me, and I would have just ignored him.
So I stood, hitched to the rail, and watched what was going on around me. Time passed, and so did people. The boat came in. People went in and out of the building. Eventually, a crowd of people came out carrying baggage. I’d seen it before, when I was assigned here for the taxi service.
Sandra came out, talking to two people. Oh, Shit! One of them was daddy! I went into shock for a moment. Well, longer than a moment. Dad went off with the other woman, Sandra had luggage loaded into the cart, and then she told me "Home."
I was still in shock. Then my training reasserted itself, and I came to. Throwing a tantrum wasn’t going to help at all in getting off the island in any type of style. I had an order, so I headed out into traffic.
I got us to the Embassy without mishap. Sandra had a porter unload the cart. She stopped the stable lad from leading me away while she talked to the stable master. It seemed that someone named Princess Jeanette had ordered that I could talk to dad. Then the stable lad led me back to my stall.
I got to talk to dad later that day. Just seeing him helped immensely. I hadn’t realized how much I missed family. Finally, he asked point blank exactly why I had done such an idiotic thing.
Well, that was Dad. You could cover up only so long with him. So I took a deep breath, and told him. I’d always wanted to boss people around. And I also liked to hurt people. It wasn’t something I was proud of, but it seemed to be part of me. And I knew it wouldn’t do him any good if people knew, so I kept it suppressed.
He looked shocked, then thoughtful. "Well, that certainly explains a lot. I can’t say you’re wrong about the political ramifications. Talk to Sandra about it."
Huh? "What on earth does Sandra have to do with it?"
"She’s your supervisor for the Freehold side of things. I have no idea whether she can do anything, but she should know."
He left. At least, it was out on the table. The relief was incredible.
Sandra dropped by later that day. "Hi, Flowers. Dad said you had something to talk to me about."
So I explained it. "That’s possibly useful for me to know. What do you want me to do about it?"
"It seems I’m blocked on the mainland side of things. At least, if I want to avoid hurting Dad politically."
"That’s probably true, but I’m not an expert."
"So, is there any possibility on this side?
"Good question, Flowers. I don’t know. I’ll have to do some research."
She left, and I looked at it. It looked like whatever happened, the next steps were from where I was.
I checked with the computer that night.
It’s good you are looking at this. Please tell me the primary charge against you.
"Uh, sado-masochism?"
Not exactly. You can do better.
"Playing with the ponygirl?"
Better. There’s one more item.
"Oh, she didn’t agree to it."
Exactly. The charge was non-consensual sado-masochism.
"So, what is the arrangement on the Freehold side?"
I’m not allowed to discuss that until you fulfill one additional prerequisite. I’m also not allowed to tell you the prerequisite.
I stared at it in shock. Then I thought. One secret prerequisite. That sounded like I might have to immigrate first.
So I asked.
Exactly. This information is not available to visitors.
Could I immigrate now? And what would that do to my sentence?
You would have to take the course and pass the test. The time limit only applies to visitors; it does not apply to residents. Other than that, it has no effect whatever.
I went on to other work on the comp. I figured that talking to Sandra was the next step on this line. I noticed that the computer had added the immigration course as an elective, with Consent of Supervisor as the prerequisite.
Sandra came by the next day. She gave me two additional tidbits. One was that professional dominant was a recognized career choice. The other was that if you had a registered career choice, you tended to be assigned to someone in that general field, as a kind of apprenticeship. That’s why she had been assigned to the Ambassador.
I decided to apply for immigration.
Sandra said, "I’ll approve if you insist, but I’d prefer that you do a psych evaluation first."
"Why?"
"It’s hard to know if something is really part of you, or if it’s closer to the surface, and can be dealt with. The evaluation will tell you. Then it’s your decision."
I looked at that for a while. I had a suggestion from my supervisor, and I didn’t have a good reason to not do it. "OK, I’ll do it."
"You’ll find it on the menu. It’s going to take a while; the computer is not the most efficient tool for this. On the other hand, some of this is going to be needed for professional dominant anyway. And if it does nothing else, you’ll have a much better memory."
That cheered me up. At least, she didn’t have me totally off track.
Dad stayed for two weeks. I got assigned to take him around as much as I got assigned to Sandra. He gave me a big hug when he left, and told me to do well. I don’t think he expected to see me again.
Chapter 11.

There was a new course on my list. "Emergency Psychotherapy for Supervisors."
I asked if this related to what Amy would be doing.
Of course. It is not absolutely necessary that you take this, since I will be guiding her through the process.
Right. "However, I need to know about it. I may have to offer support."
Exactly.
I opened the course. It was quite candid about the techniques working only part of the time. Part was much better than not at all if help was not available.
The basic technique was regression and redecision. The outline looked straightforward. The assumptions were anything but. There was an examination of how people made major life decisions. Another one on ramifications. Various hypnotic patterns for tracing back to the original decision. What to do if the regression went into a past life.
Some of the material in there looked fascinating. I could see applying it to myself.
"Is there a personal use version of this course?"
Yes. It is normally taken sometime after achieving a supervisor rating, but it is available at the citizen level.
"Please add it to my curriculum."
It appeared with "Consent of Supervisor" and "Citizen" as the prerequisites. Then it got marked "Approved" with Princess Jeanette’s override code. Oh, my. That looked like a direct order. I was going to have to talk to the Ambassador about my schedule.
It turned out not to be that bad. The course consisted of a number of exercises. Each one was to be done daily, for fifteen to twenty minutes until I could do them reliably. Then I was to go on to the next one. Half an hour I could juggle. And it had a lot of overlap with the Emergency Psychotherapy course.
Chapter 12. Amy again.

That evening I got to my course list. "Personal Use Psychotherapy" was on it with an imposing list of prerequisites, none of which I could manage in any reasonable time. Then two more items added themselves: "Override Requested – Sandra Stone" and "Override Requested (Foreign) – Senator Stone". A moment later, another one came up: "Approved – Princess Jeanette."
I stared at it in shock. One of the gods of Freehold had gotten interested in me? Then the next shock intruded. Daddy was marked "Foreign." Sandra wasn’t. Well, that I could check quickly.
"Why isn’t Sandra marked as Foreign?"
Your sister has been offered immigration. She is expected to rise to Princess rank if she chooses to pursue it. Accordingly, for certain limited functions, she is being treated as a resident of Freehold.
Oh, shit. Well, that explained a lot. The fast track leads to the hot seat.
Back to the course. It turned out to be a series of exercises. Each one was to be done until I was able to do it successfully almost all of the time. They were carefully marked as to the order I needed to take them. I couldn’t make out the logic, but then, I didn’t need to. It allocated fifteen minutes a day.
Chapter 13. The Gallery of Memory

Amy and I didn’t keep pace. She had a more specific version that was aimed directly at resolving the sadism, if possible. She had the VR helmet, which acted like a form of biofeedback device. She could also use time she was otherwise wasting just standing in her stall. She got to the gallery of her memory faster than I did.
Once I got there, it proved incredibly useful. How it worked, I have no idea. Effectively, I would rise out of my body, and then somehow I could see my life as a series of rooms, one for each day. I could walk back and forth, and examine anything in them. And I never got hooked into the feelings involved. They were there, but they had no ability to command me. All by itself, being able to go back and review conversations and meetings proved a gold mine.
The next major step was to use the gallery to trace threads. This proved useful for tracking down experiences where I didn’t remember the date. But it was more useful for tracing reactions. The first time I tracked down a particular irritation was a revelation. The thread ended with a specific incident when I was two.
Then I had to learn how to deal with it. Obviously, I had made an incorrect choice. But that was layered into many other choices throughout my life. Unraveling it was a major project. Once I did, changing it was almost trivial. I was told to block out several hours. I had no idea why, but I did.
It was just as well. The change was almost instantaneous. The ripple effect as everything it affected changed took time. Lots of time. I was totally out of it for three hours.
Not only did the irritation vanish, but also a lot of other things changed in the next few weeks.
I had done three changes by the time Amy was ready to trace down the sadism. The thing was, as a ponygirl, she didn’t have a use for most of it. It was like we had the same distance to go, but I had places where I could stop and consolidate before pressing on. She had to go the route in one step.
Eventually, she was ready. We had arranged with the stable master to block out her entire day. The change knocked her out for six hours. But the sadism was gone. I never asked her for details; she never volunteered any.
She decided not to immigrate at this time. Without the sadism, she felt she had options on both sides that she wanted to look into. I had to agree with her; that was the outcome I had hoped for.
Two months later, she got her jump to personal slave. I led her to the training building personally. I was no longer her supervisor.
Chapter 14. Espionage.

I had gotten my double jump to Citizen (Foreign Equivalent) a few months previous. My sentence ended when Amy got her jump; I could now leave if I wanted. Frankly, I didn’t want. Vanity played a bit of a role; I liked the sound of Princess Sandra, even if it would be eight to ten years before I would hear it.
Amy went though the personal slave training in fine style. She’s now the young woman kneeling by the Ambassador’s desk. I stayed on at the Embassy, formally as a State Department employee, informally as a candidate for Freehold immigration, sometime. Both the State Department and Freehold figured the ambiguity was to their advantage.
Life in the fast lane was certainly interesting. One morning, I got a request to come down to Justice. Someone was asking for the Ambassador. Someone had been caught spying. Something associated, and I spent some time pulling files.
There was a non-descript young woman in the interview room. She started right in. I cut her off.
"You were caught in a restricted area. Those areas are clearly marked, and are also explained in Orientation. You cannot make a credible claim that you didn’t know where you were; the surveillance system has a complete record of your activities."
She looked shocked. "Lets look at excerpts." I showed them to her.
"We should have known about this."
"Your supervisor knows about it. Freehold’s surveillance system is hardly a secret."
"You’re trying to tell me that I was set up?"
"Yes. What do you know of Freehold’s legal system?"
What she told me was a joke. She knew nothing about it. I explained it to her as best I could. She looked shocked again.
"Clearly, you were set up. This smelled so bad when I got the dossier that I decided to check further before interviewing you. That’s what the delay was, not usual bureaucratic inefficiency. You supervisor has sent at least ten agents here before you. He knows exactly what is up. I suspect it’s his way of getting rid of subordinates that might challenge his position."
"Now, here’s what usually happens. The justice system makes an estimate of the personal and social responsibility rating of the miscreant. The person is started at that point in the Freehold system that is most appropriate for that rating. They are given a time limit to raise their responsibility ratings to the equivalent of Citizen, which is the lowest rating that does not require some form of direct, personal supervision or other restrictive structure.
"What makes that difficult in your case is that the charge is espionage. That really doesn’t correspond to low responsibility ratings at all, unless it’s an internal Freehold affair, which this isn’t. I would expect that you would be required to raise your social responsibility rating to something corresponding to One World. That’s not impossible, but it’s an absurd result in an individual case. I have no idea what the judge will do."
"Now, you need a couple of additional facts. One is that ponygirls get an interesting metabolic boost. If you manage to leave after that boost, you will be ineligible for competitive sports of any variety. Freehold will register you with the world sports authorities."
"The second fact is that the reason Freehold remains independent is that we are backed by the Dodecahedron. Your supervisor knows this. The only reason he’s still alive is that he has managed not to cross them directly. I’ve already sent this set of dossiers upstairs."
I checked my readout. The status had changed while we were talking. The case was now on hold while the Syndics of the Dodecahedron considered it.
"You’re in luck. Princess Jeanette referred it to the Syndics of the Dodecahedron. It’s on hold until they resolve it from their end. That shouldn’t be too long; they don’t let these things fester. Meanwhile, why don’t we discuss Freehold? I suspect that you’ve got lots of questions from your stay here that I can answer."
We talked for a while. Eventually, my display updated.
"We can now go talk to the judge. The Syndics have acted. Your supervisor, and the executive two steps above him, has been executed. Its officially an action against the Dodecahedron."
We went to the waiting room, and the case was called. Different judge, same setup. She sat in one chair; I sat in another. The two walking mountains moved into position behind her chair. Ponygirl capture stuff was laid out on a table.
The judge called the case. He asked her for her input.
"The facts are as stated, you honor. I don’t have enough information on your legal system to tell if the charge is consistent with the facts."
He smiled, made a note. "Envoy?"
"The Syndics have decided that the espionage was aimed at their interests. Accordingly, the charge of espionage against Freehold may no longer be appropriate."
He looked startled. Then he started checking the file. After a few minutes, he said, "The statement about the Syndics is correct." He thought for a moment.
"Please rise and face the court."
She rose.
"Most of your actions in this case arise out of an external espionage plot against the Dodecahedron. They have already rendered their judgment. They do not, as a matter of policy, act against lower echelon agents operating under reasonable orders, as long as those orders were not being exceeded. Since they have not acted against you, the conclusion is inescapable that you did not exceed your orders."
"The record does not show any actions which would cause Freehold to reevaluate your provisional personal and social responsibility ratings. Accordingly, I will dismiss the charges."
"Case dismissed."
She sagged in relief. Then she followed me out.
I told her, "We’re going to the Embassy first. You need to check in with your department." My ponygirl was still hitched in front of the Ministry of Justice. I had brought a two-person cart.
I flicked the reins, and my girl moved the cart into traffic. I never supervised the ponygirls; they knew their jobs or they wouldn’t be in the Embassy stables. Something else had occurred to me.
"What did they tell you about the Freehold advancement system?"
"We couldn’t use it. We would be severely punished for asking."
"Right. Part of the setup. That is the only way you can advance. Period. Your predecessors are in freight, if they’re lucky. If they aren’t, they’re on a farm."
"Oh, my god!"
"Exactly. Sentences are set up so that anyone with an average amount of intelligence, drive and integrity can finish them with an adequate margin. But they have to use the advancement system."
"What do we do?"
"You call home. I’m going to file a request for reevaluation with the Justice system and with the Princess I work with. Then I’m going to assume that they tell me to go to hell, and plan on locating each and every one and talking to them personally."
Chapter 15. Drover

I’d gotten my ponies fed and settled in. I’d put the helmets on the five that used the advancement system. Two of the others were on the stupid end of stupid. The third was a puzzle. I’d had to kick his ass for apathy a few times, but otherwise, he looked too good for freight. He just refused to use the system. I’d quit expecting him to ask, and I wasn’t allowed to kick his ass into getting started.
Time to check in myself. I wouldn’t have anything else to do until I took the helmets off of the five. I fired it up, and then I swore. There was a message with a Princess level priority code. This I didn’t need. Well, I could always send it back and ask for it in fewer, shorter words that made sense.
I read the damn thing three times. When it sank in, I swore again. This explained my puzzle. He’d been lied to about the advancement system. And that was just obscene.
Well, time to do something. "Steel River, get your ass over here! I need to talk to you."
He struggled to his feet, trotted over and looked at me.
"What part of talk don’t you understand?"
"Huh?"
"It’s a word. What were you told about those fucking helmets?"
"I’d be punished if I asked about them."
"Well, you were lied to. The truth is exactly the opposite." I stared at him.
He stared back.
"You’re supposed to ask me about them. Either you ask me right now, or I kick your ass and put one on you anyway. UNDERSTAND?"
"Uh, may I use the advancement system?"
I smiled. "You certainly can. Get your ass back over there, and I’ll show you how it works."
I got one of the spares from the wagon. "I put it on your head, and turn it on. I take it off. It will teach you how to use it. Simple." The kind of simple I liked.
I checked status. It had already started to teach him how to use it. Good. I could send the message back to the Princess with a done. One more problem out of my life.
